# Introduction

  

Hey! <a href="https://www.hoppersroppers.org/about.html" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">I'm Dennis</a>, the person behind Hopper's Roppers.

This is the Roppers Practical Security Fundamentals course. To the best
of my knowledge, it is the only security theory course out there that
focuses on practical application. Its sister course, [Roppers Security
Fundamentals](https://www.roppers.org/courses/security) focuses on the
theory behind security, and you should complete that before starting
this one. Promise it goes fast. If you do that course first there is a
small amount of overlap for the topics I think are critical, but no need
to waste time, when you come upon duplicated material just read it real
fast and keep moving. This course is about technical ability, not
theory.

These courses together will teach students about risk, threat modeling,
and how they can defend themselves and others online.  You've gotten
most of the theory in the previous course, this course is about teaching
practical skills backed up by theory; not advanced persistent threats
and fighting off malware.

This course doesn't have an official place in the
<a href="https://www.hoppersroppers.org/roadmap/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">roadmap</a> I use to guide students toward the best
resources available. Still, it is an essential part of your development
as a security professional.

## Pre-Requisites

Our Computing Fundamentals course is recommended, but not required. This
is technical and will require an understanding of Linux and the command
line. 

[Roppers Security
Fundamentals](https://www.roppers.org/courses/security) is highly
recommended as it goes over the theory behind what we are doing here.

Welcome to the show!
