# Passwords

# <iframe allowfullscreen height="360" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/VbcyLjblM_k?wmode=opaque" width="640"></iframe>

# HaveIBeenPwned

You probably know this already, you are orders of magnitude more likely
to have your password stolen in a data breach than by a bad guy sniffing
your traffic or breaking into your computer. As mentioned before, when
people get hacked on the internet, they are incidental victims much more
often than targeted. When a site is breached and the emails and
passwords leak themselves onto the net, the next thing that happens is
called password stuffing, where scripts will attempt to login to 1000s
of sites using all of those email and password combos. If it works, you
just lost your account. This means that reusing a password, no matter
how "strong" it is, is only as secure as the least secure site that you
use that password on. If they get breached, your password is out there
on the internet, and if you used the same password for your email, you
might be about to have a very bad day.

So before we tackle the problem of password reuse, it's time for you to
check if any of your accounts have been found in a publicly available
data breach. If they have and your password was compromised, you should
start changing anything that shares a password before someone else does,
no matter how long ago in the past the breach may have occurred.

Check out <a href="https://haveibeenpwned.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">https://haveibeenpwned.com/</a> a badass website run by
the good guys.

Don't freak out too hard if you find your accounts have been breached,
it's normal these days, but it's time to take steps to secure yourself.

# Password Manager

My first recommendation is to start using a password manager such as
LastPass, Keepass, or 1Password. Even Apple and Google have built-in
ones for your browser these days. If you haven't heard of them before,
what password managers do is recommend randomized passwords to you when
you sign up to a site, store the password, and then autofill the
password for you when you are logging in to the site the next time. This
is very helpful because the human brain can only remember so many
passwords, which leads us to reuse passwords across different sites. The
problem with this is that if you use the same password on all of your
accounts if someone steals that password at one site, they now have the
ability to log into any of your accounts. Password managers help you
maintain track of a bunch of strong, unique passwords, which limits the
most likely threat that you have online.

If you don't like trusting random internet people who tell you to
download things in the first 5 minutes they know you, good call: I
respect that. If you trust me, I recommend using
<a href="https://lastpass.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">LastPass</a> (though it is paid now). There's plenty of
other great password managers out there, but I've been using this one
forever and that is the main reason I recommend it. Convince your
friends and family to use password managers. Again, I totally get if you
don't want to do this now, just skip it. If you want to learn more about
password managers, check <a
href="https://www.howtogeek.com/141500/why-you-should-use-a-password-manager-and-how-to-get-started/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this link</a> out.

If you take nothing else away from this course, just start using a
password manager. It will make your life easier and you will be more
secure.Â 
