# Who is Tracking You?

<iframe allowfullscreen height="360" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/f5O5aXektCw?wmode=opaque" width="640"></iframe>  

A famous quote about the internet is “If a service is free, the product
is you”. this applies from social media to news sites to free antivirus.
(If you're wondering why this site is free, I'm using all my students to
improve this curriculum so that I can find a way to become a millionaire
someday. 

Silicon Valley is built on advertising money, and they make their money
by targeting advertisements. The more targeted, the more money they can
charge. It isn't always advertisements though. Anything can be turned
into a dataset from pictures of your face, your conversations, any
behavioral feature, or things like what you buy and what malware you
download.

You probably have heard of cookies, but if you want a little bit more
information, <a href="http://computer.howstuffworks.com/cookie.htm" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here's a link</a>. If I had to guess, you probably have
also heard you should be running an ad-blocker. If you still aren't and
need some more convincing, [check out this
article](https://lifehacker.com/5649025/why-you-should-use-adblock-plus-even-if-you-dont-block-ads).

If you want to see what is tracking you right now on various sites,
install the <a href="https://www.ghostery.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Ghostery</a> extension. It's a pretty cool visual, and
you can manually update permissions, however, it isn't a full adblocker.

Your second task, if you do not already have one installed, is to
install an ad-blocking extension. Ad-blockers do what they say they do,
making your web experience more visually attractive and faster, but also
block trackers and lessen the chance of getting malware-laden ads. For
Chrome, I recommend <a
href="https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/ublock-origin/cjpalhdlnbpafiamejdnhcphjbkeiagm?hl=en"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">uBlock Origin</a>. I don't use Firefox,
but it has an ad-blocker built-in which makes it one of the best choices
for the privacy and security conscious. I also recommend installing
Chrome and ad-blockers (or Firefox) on as many computers of friends and
family that you do tech support for. Again, if you don't want to do this
now, skip it. 

So now you've got adblockers installed, you're good right?

Check out what someone can learn about you just from you visiting a
website.
<a href="http://www.whatsmyip.org/more-info-about-you/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">http://www.whatsmyip.org/more-info-about-you/</a>

I don't care much for VPNs because I don't care about ad tracking and
I'm not in a country where I worry about my internet browsing being
monitored and getting taken away by the secret police. You don't need a
VPN for security no matter how many people are taking marketing money to
sell them (use my code "youdontneedavpn" for 100% off!). As long as you
are using HTTPS sites and not clicking through bad certificates, you
shouldn't have to worry about getting your credit card or passwords
stolen no matter how sketchy the public wifi you're on is. If you
reeeally want one for privacy, I trust Nord VPN and use them when I'm in
countries that annoy me by blocking random parts of the internet.

Okay, so now you're behind a VPN and you have ad-block on. You're good
now, right?

Well, check out how well you can be uniquely fingerprinted just based on
your browser. The EFF are the good guys, so they made this site to raise
awareness. <a href="https://panopticlick.eff.org/tracker" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">https://panopticlick.eff.org/tracker</a>

What's the answer here, other than that it is very hard not to be
tracked on the internet?

Keep building awareness, raising your level of security, keep your
online personas compartmentalized, and know that the internet is
probably not out to get you specifically, but that doesn't mean they
aren't trying to take advantage of you.
