# Update Your Computer and Scan

<iframe allowfullscreen height="360" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/qnK9IHXhiqw?wmode=opaque" width="640"></iframe>  

No seriously, stop pressing snooze on that update button. The single
best thing you can do for your computer, and all the computers you are
in charge of is to turn on auto-update and forget about them. They are
significantly more secure when they can receive updates on time. If your
computer isn't updated, restart now and apply updates, this course can
wait. While you're doing that, update all the computers you are
responsible for. You're a tech person now so get ahead of your family
members breaking their internet boxes.

The same goes for browsers and other applications. We'll learn a bit
more about exploits later in the course, but for now, just know that
sometimes vulnerabilities can open up your computer to attack. By
patching as soon as updates come out you can lower that window of
vulnerability.

You always like to assume you don't already have malware on your
computer but if you are working off of a shared computer, there are no
guarantees. First, ensure that Windows Defender is enabled. If it isn't,
turn it on. Once again, do this on as many computers as you are
responsible for. I don't really recommend adding 3rd party antivirus
solutions these days because Defender is so good (notably Defender does
not uninstall spamware or other programs that are annoying, just not
malicious). If you believe that your computer has some sort of malware
on it but Windows Defender isn't removing it, run
<a href="https://www.malwarebytes.com/mwb-download/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">MalwareBytes</a> and see what if anything is detected.
I'm a huge fan of their free product but don't leave it constantly
running in the background. If MalwareBytes and Windows say you're good,
you're probably good.
