# Updating Your Lab

Hey there! If you are already familiar with the contents of the
[Fundamentals
course](https://www.roppers.org/courses/take/fundamentals/) and are
using your old lab with Ubuntu or any other non-cybersecurity-focused
distribution‚Ä¶ **It is time to upgrade your lab! üßë‚Äçüíª**

**<img
src="https://files.cdn.thinkific.com/file_uploads/429463/images/746/c6d/22f/7uy4p6.jpg"
class="fr-fic fr-dib"
srcset="https://files.cdn.thinkific.com/file_uploads/429463/images/746/c6d/22f/7uy4p6.jpg?width=1920 1x, https://files.cdn.thinkific.com/file_uploads/429463/images/746/c6d/22f/7uy4p6.jpg?width=1920&amp;dpr=2 2x, https://files.cdn.thinkific.com/file_uploads/429463/images/746/c6d/22f/7uy4p6.jpg?width=1920&amp;dpr=3 3x"
style="width: 500px;" />**  

### Why?

There is a lot to learn and the time you have is limited, ideally, you
want to spend as much time learning and spend a lot less setting things
up. - Some sections in this course and beyond (advanced courses) may
require your machine to have some specialized tools which are not
available on the distro by default and are neither available on their
universal repositories, in order to install them and update them you
will have to manually. - Locate their repositories - Add them to your
system repository database - Ensure compatibility between what is used
and what is available - So, it is time to upgrade your hacking lab OS to
a more cybersecurity-focused distro: Kali Linux

### Kali Linux

[Kali Linux](https://www.kali.org/) is an open-source, Debian-based
Linux distribution geared towards various information security tasks,
such as Penetration Testing, Security Research, Computer Forensics, and
Reverse Engineering.

#### Installation guide -

Use [this link](https://www.kali.org/docs/) to download and install Kali
Linux on your machine according to your needs. Use the Slack channel for
any help or assistance required. You can surely choose to go your own
path and install tools as required, but honestly just don‚Äôt waste your
time and energy over petty issues unless you absolutely want to tinker
and learn by breaking and fixing things through trial and error.

Shoutout to @map for identifying that this section needed to exist and
writing it! If you are ever going through these courses and want to
contribute, just hit me up!
