# Malware Removal

<iframe allowfullscreen height="360" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/QkJBpUQ54aI?wmode=opaque" width="640"></iframe>  

We are about to get philosophical. Remember how we were just talking
about how there is straight up, NO possible way for us to know if your
computer is owned? Well we are about to get into the exact same problem,
but now for cleaning your computer. If you have evidence that a
malicious program ran on your computer, you can never trust this
computer ever again. That tiny PUP that kept changing your homepage to
some Chinese marketplace could have been bundled with some nation state
rootkit that overwrote your computer's foundational code down at the
soul of the device and you aren't going to be able to remove that
malware unless you return the silicon into sand.

However, that is very, very, very unlikely. As we have said before, you
are not going to be targeted by nation states, or really anyone at all.
If you get hacked, almost certainly by an untargeted attack, the malware
will drop itself off, establish persistence, and then do its thing.
While there have been examples in the past of standard malware going for
rootkit persistence, that is significantly more difficult on modern
operating systems. 99% of the time, if antivirus identifies the malware
and removes it, you are good and don't have to worry about any follow on
problems. Sure, that does leave room for the next 1%, so my
recommendation is remove the malware, let that computer chill for a day
or two if you can afford to use another, and then run the malware scan
again. If you keep finding malware you have a bigger problem, but the
rest of the time, you can just go back to using the computer as normal.
It is no life to buy a new computer every time you mess up, and it gets
expensive fast.

So with all that said, if you use your computer for nuclear launch
codes, critical intellectual property, or managing the crypto wallets of
your hoarded wealth in addition to casual internet surfing, don't
destroy the pwned computer. Buy a new computer to do your serious
business, and then clean up the old one as best you can and use the old
computer to surf the web. Compartmentalization is key.

## So how do I get it clean again?

Can't do better than this guide. <a
href="https://blog.malwarebytes.com/101/2015/06/10-easy-steps-to-clean-your-infected-computer/"
rel="noopener"
target="_blank">https://blog.malwarebytes.com/101/2015/06/10-easy-steps-to-clean-your-infected-computer/</a>
I might get some heat from some corners for recommending a specific
malware remover, but hell, its Malwarebytes or Kaspersky and I'm not big
on Russians.

Also, go to a clean computer and change all of your passwords
immediately. Allllll of them. Remember, prior to resetting passwords,
ensure that you have ended all the sessions your account is showing. If
you reset passwords but sessions are still active, the attacker can
still have access to your accounts.

## What would happen if the malware doesn't all get deleted on the first run?

If all the malware is still there, it means that the anti-virus you're
using isn't very good, or that the malware is pretty good. Maybe both.
Either way, you are not good enough to go and manually delete everything
you need to delete the malware yourself, so best bet is don't use the
computer for a few days, then try and delete it again using your tools
after their signatures get updated. Think about it this way, if a piece
of malware gets by your anti-virus' signatures, there is a good chance
that it is somewhat new. If you got hacked by it in an untargeted
attack, most likely many other people did as well. This will lead to the
anti-virus company identifying the malware as persistent and then
analyzing it to identify what it is missing in the first clean. Then
they will update the signatures and have a more effective removal
process the next time. If the malware's persistence mechanism is so good
you, Windows, and Malwarebytes still can't beat it, your best move is to
reinstall the operating system. This will work in most cases, though
there is a small chance of a rootkit/bookit or worse, firmware malware
persisting across OS installs. If this happens... well honestly, you
probably won't notice. But if you do think you have a bootkit... you
don't, you're not that special.

Let's say you are actually someone important and you think you have a
real bootkit (of which like 3 have ever been found in the wild). Get
your computer to someone who can get it to [Citizen
Lab](https://citizenlab.ca/)(a non profit group that does detection and
response for journalists and dissidents) because that's some high
quality shit. They'll probably give you a sticker or something.

## Repeat Attack Vectors

If you removed the malware, but you keep getting new malware a week or
two later, and you are confident it isn't persistent, you need to figure
out how you keep getting hit.

-   Patching
    -   If you haven't patched, you are still vulnerable! You should
        have auto update on.
-   Attachments
    -   If you, or someone else keeps getting hit with attachments/etc,
        they need some user training
-   Pirated Software
    -   If you keep downloading pirated shit, you will keep getting
        popped. That is just how it goes.
-   Porn Popups
    -   Same shit, stop going on sketchy porn sites and downloading
        things.
-   It could be persistent and just sleeps for a week upon install
    -   Reinstall your OS
