# Network Architecture Notes

<iframe allowfullscreen height="360" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/crUcLIMijjs?wmode=opaque" width="640"></iframe>  

Alright fine, you know what time it is. We're at the fun part where we
get to learn about malware, how the bad guys get in and the good guys
stop them.

But first, networking vocab! This is a very short section that we will
make longer in the future, but for now, it'll do. You don't need to know
networking, just what these words mean.

-   Modem

A modem converts data into a signal at the end of a wire. I.e., converts
bits into waves or waves to bits. Modem is short for "modulator
demodulator".

-   Router

Router is a gateway for a device to the Internet. It distributes packets
to different devices on a network, or between computer networks. A
router can also manipulate the data coming through it, repackaging it,
or analyzing it.

-   Switch

A switch is like a simple router. It connects to devices on a LAN,
receives packets, and distributes them to their destinations. The switch
connects to devices via ethernet, either in input or output ports. It
reads data on the input ports and sends it out on the output ports.

-   Firewall

A firewall is a piece of software running on a personal computer or
network server which monitors incoming traffic and determines what is
allowed through.

-   DMZ

A Demilitarized Zone is a screened subnet where one's Internet facing
activities take place.

-   Proxy

A proxy (server) is is an intermediary server that your internet traffic
is funneled through. This makes it so that from the destination's
perspective, the traffic is coming from the proxy server and not your
server.

-   Endpoint/Host

A Host or Endpoint is a computer connected to a network. It can receive
packets from other hosts.

-   Server

A server is a computer on a network that sends packets to other devices
on the network. The server usually runs some kind of software for
managing the network. For example, an email program where clients can
connect and check their email. A server provides services to clients.

-   Web Application

A web application is a piece of software accessed via a web browser,
rather than a discrete computer on a network. Clients can connect via
the Internet instead of a LAN.

-   Domain Controller

A domain controller is a server that authenticates users on a network or
domain.

Use google if you don't understand any of these terms.
