# Job Roles - Red vs Blue

<iframe allowfullscreen height="360" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/LZk4VSDC604?wmode=opaque" width="640"></iframe>  

No, not the
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9N8IpxO6rKs" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">classic Halo video series</a>.

In this section we are going to talk about the different jobs that are
out there, just briefly enough to pique your interest and give you
context for future lessons, and then I will move on. This is in no way
an attempt to provide a full list of jobs that are available.

# Red Team

In this simplified world of ours, Red Team means offense and Blue means
defense. Well, I'll say this one up front: Everyone wants to be red
team, but there aren't any jobs for it... because it is fun as hell.
Plus, you should know how to defend first because otherwise how the hell
will you know what you are hiding from. (Oh I know this section will
piss people off)

### Operator

The most pure form of offense, somebody gives you a tool, a target, and
you put hands on keyboard. Basically no legal jobs exist for this
outside of the government.

### Network Penetration Tester (Pentester)

It's like being an operator, but instead of hacking a target, you're
paid to focus on a specific organization during what is a called a
"pentest" to identify their assets, attack them, and write a report on
your findings. It's like hacking, if you spent the entire time writing
documentation.

### Physical Penetration Tester

Like being a network pentester but you try to break into buildings, and
usually it involves a lot of lying (which you call "social engineering"
because you're a professional).

### Web Application Pentester

It's like being a network pentester, but you look exclusively for
vulnerabilities in webapps and attempt to prove impact. Then you write
it up and give the exploits and bugs to whoever is paying you. If no one
is paying you, then you can try to do the bug bounty thing and compete
with everyone else on the internet.

### Tool Developer

The people who build the tools required for operators and pentesters to
do their jobs. For the most part, these people work for pentest
companies and release their tools as content marketing for everyone else
to use. And by everyone else, I mean criminals. Great marketing, you
clowns.

### Exploit Developer

The people who write exploits on various pieces of software and then
distribute working exploits to operators, pentesters, and often the
company or software project itself so they can fix the bugs.

# Blue

This is where all the hard work is, where the free world is protected,
and the money gets made. Yes, this is where the vast majority of the
jobs are. Plus it's way more fun to work at the top of your field
legally. Red teams just LARP being operators.

### SysAdmins, Helpdesk, and Network Engineers

This is the front line of defense, and possibly the most important one.
Anyone in these roles is in a security job, whether they want to or not.

### Security Engineer

These are the people who attempt to architect the network, systems, and
policies so that attackers have a harder time stealing everything.

### Security Analyst

The people who look at logs and alerts and defend the network from
attackers, 24/7. This is where most of the jobs are and what you should
focus on.

## Incident Response (IR)

These are the people who the security analysts call when they've
detected a breach and need to respond to it.

### Digital Forensic Analyst

Often combined with Incident Response in the acronym DFIR, these are the
people the IR folks call when they need to find out what happened on a
network at some point in the past.

### Malware Analyst

These are the people who spend their time reverse engineering malware
samples that the other analysts find.

### Threat Analyst / Threat Intel

These are the people who provide actionable intelligence to everyone
else on what the bad guys are doing.

### Auditing and Compliance/Governance and Policy

These are the people who ensure that the security engineers are doing
the right things

### Identity and Access Management

These are the people who ensure that the right people are logging in to
the right places securely. In a big company, this is absolutely
critical.

### Secure Development

While more of a subset of development, some developers are exclusively
focused on making secure software, using specific processes, tools, and
sometimes dedicated hardware. If every developer was an expert in secure
development there'd be a lot less jobs for all the people listed above.

### Tool Developer

The people who write the tools required for everyone else to do their
jobs.

Alright, hopefully I didn't piss anyone off too bad with this rundown.
I'll be referencing these individuals as I go forward and talk about
different common attacks.

<iframe allowfullscreen height="360" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ecrwjVGPLeQ?wmode=opaque" width="640"></iframe>  
